The mission that could not have gone better. After a stellar day and successful completion of the CASSIOPE mission on 1 September 2013, a relieved Musk commented "It's been weighing on me quite heavily".

This flight of the 6th Falcon 9 marked many firsts, and held a long list of "precedents and superlatives". CASSIOPE was the 1st Falcon 9v1.1 flight, with lengthened lower and upper stages, a new octaweb engine configuration replacing the 3x3 grid, more powerful Merlin 1D engines on the upper and lower stage, a simplified stage separation mechanism, and a stronger construction. This was also the 1st Falcon 9 flight to fly with a payload fairing measuring 5.2 metres across, which protected CASSIOPE, an Earth Observation and research satellite for Canada's MDA corporation and the 4 other secondary payloads from the aerodynamic forces of the atmosphere. Furthermore, CASSIOPE launched from Vandenberg Air Force Base on the West Coast, allowing Falcon 9 to reach a polar orbit not possible from the Cape. Both were firsts for SpaceX.

Falcon 9v1.1 thundered away from Vandenberg SLC-4E on time into a cloudless blue California sky, quickly reaching supersonic velocities. Stage separation, second stage ignition, and payload fairing separation all occurred as expected. Once orbital velocity was reached, the 500kg CASSIOPE separated. Later in orbit, a restart of the second stage was attempted to demonstrate to future customers the capability to deliver payloads to beyond LEO destinations, but frozen fuel lines prevented the engine restarting. This, thankfully, was in no way necessary for CASSIOPE's mission. Following this, the U.S. Space Track Command noticed a number of additional, small objects had appeared in orbit with the second stage, fueling speculation the stage had experienced an explosion. SpaceX responded by claiming they were simply bits of tank dome insulation. Indeed, they had decayed from orbit by late 2013, confirming their small size and mass.

After the first stage separated, SpaceX began approaching the problem of reusability from the supersonic end, by relighting three of the Merlin 1D engines to perform the world's first supersonic retropropulsion burn to turn the stage around and slow it down. This was successful, and as the core descended towards the ocean, the central engine lit for a final time to perform a 'soft landing' by splashing down. The restart was successful, but a roll began developing. The roll quickly exceeded the ability of the attitude control thrusters on the stage to null it out. Because of this, the fuel centrifuged, the engine flamed out, and the vehicle splashed down hard into the ocean. Despite this, the test was a success.