>”Issue with Dragon thruster pods. System inhibiting three of four from initializing. About to command inhibit override."

SpaceX’s second cargo resupply mission with Dragon to the International Space Station was launched on the last Falcon 9 v1.0 vehicle on 1 March 2013. Launching at 15:10 UTC, the vehicle performed excellently. The launch had initially been delayed as SpaceX investigated a first stage Merlin 1C engine failure that had occurred on the previous flight, CRS-1. The vehicle was shipped to Cape Canaveral in December 2012, and underwent a static fire on 25 February.

Following the successful launch, problems with Dragon’s propulsion system immediately became apparent. The vehicle detected insufficient pressurization of its thruster pods (which are fueled by nitrogen tetroxide & monomethyl hydrazine), causing the flight computers to place the vehicle into a passive abort mode. This disabled its attitude control system and prevented the deployment of Dragon’s two solar arrays. Providing live updates on Twitter as the problem continued, Musk announced they would attempt to override the system - which succeeded. Once two of the four thruster pods had been activated, the solar arrays deployed. A third thruster pod was then brought online, soon followed by the final fourth. Once the issue was fixed, the only lasting effect was a small delay in berthing the vehicle- from 2 December to 3 December.

Dragon carried 677kg of pressurized cargo up to the ISS and returned 1370kg to earth, the largest total transfer so far. Also included in the upmass was 375kg of unpressurized cargo, consisting of mating adapters and two Heat Rejection Subsystem Grapple Fixtures (HRSGFs), which are essentially bars that were attached to the ISS’s radiators to allow for easier movement while working. This was the first time Dragon's trunk had been needed.

Dragon stayed berthed to the ISS for over 22 days and 18 hours, setting a new Dragon duration record in space. After CRS-2, the Falcon 9 v1.0 vehicle was retired to make way for the new, more powerful Falcon 9v1.1.