CRS-3 was SpaceX’s second flight of the year, and marked the inaugural 2014 Dragon commercial resupply mission under the CRS contract to the International Space Station. Originally scheduled to launch on 30 September 2013, the launch date was pushed back several times by a number of issues, including limited berthing windows in the ISS Visiting Vehicle schedule, delays from Orbital Sciences' Cygnus vehicle, and cooling issues aboard the ISS. It was finally rescheduled to 2 April 2014, but delayed yet again by a fire on the Air Force's Eastern Range radar station, contamination issues onboard Dragon, and a faulty helium-supply valve, the mission finally launched from Cape Canaveral on 18 April 2014.

Apart from its primary payload, the mission was most notable for the addition of the four fold-down landing legs around the base of the first stage, the first of their kind on any rocket. This change, along with a beefed up Attitude Control System for fine guidance control as the stage reenters, allowed the first stage to perform a controlled "soft splashdown" into the stormy Atlantic right around the time SECO occurred. The intense conditions during the landing and the limited radar coverage in the area resulted in a video of the landing from the rocket that was extensively corrupted. Musk himself mentioned that they had a custom-fitted pie dish antenna strapped to the inside of the chase plane so that imagery could be received. SpaceX chose to crowdsource the recovery of the corrupted video, and over the course of a month volunteers from NASASpaceFlight Forums and /r/spacex managed to perform what was essentially described as "magic", recovering a significant portion of the video, and in the process developing several new video recovery techniques that have implications far beyond that of spaceflight.

Safely in orbit, Dragon arrived as an Easter egg for the ISS, berthing with the station on 19 April. With a short and unexpected reboot of the craft’s onboard avionics being the only hiccup during the highly choreographed maneuvering between it and ISS, Dragon hauled up a record amount of cargo. 2117 kilograms in total; an increase due to the bigger mass budget allowed by the new, more powerful Falcon 9 v1.1. Dragon’s visit to the orbiting complex broke another record- time spent by private craft, over 30 days from launch to splashdown.

Unberthing occurred on 18 May, and was soon followed by splashdown of Dragon and 1563 kilograms of experiments off the coast of Baja California. It was reported that a small amount of seawater had intruded into the capsule, possibly from the heavy chop that it landed into. Neither NASA nor SpaceX reported any damage to any of sensitive research samples. Initially, the culprit was suspected to have been part of the payload; but when the cargo was unloaded, the portion of the payload in question was intact. This was not the first time a seawater breach had been reported in Dragon- CRS-1 in October 2012 had a similar occurrence, cutting off power to a GLACIER freezer aboard the craft. Musk later clarified that the seep was likely due to intrusion through a valve.