Following a smooth launch campaign with only a single weather-related delay, Falcon 9 & Dragon took flight and lifted off into the Florida night sky once more, for the fourth of a nominal twelve Cargo Resupply Services for NASA to the ISS in September 2014; hauling 2216kg of cargo up to the station's six onboard astronauts.

Among the cargo was the 589kg RapidSCAT instrument, designed to be attached to the ISS to measure wind speeds across the Earth's oceans. Stowed in Dragon's unpressurized trunk, it represented at the time of flight the heaviest element carried in the trunk of Dragon thus far (CATS, which flew on the following CRS-5 mission, became a close second).

Despite the lack of landing legs caused by the earlier core switch with AsiaSat 6, the flight was smooth, and the first stage instead performed an ocean landing like many of the flights before it. Although no telemetry or information was ever released, NASA recorded the vehicle's apogee and reentry into the atmosphere in infrared for study with applications for hypersonic Mars flight. The second stage continued to fire for a further 6 minutes, placing Dragon in a nominal 359 by 199km orbit inclined 51.6 degrees, allowing it to fire its thrusters and make its way towards a rendezvous with the ISS.

After spending a record time at the station, over 34 days, Dragon was unberthed from the Harmony module on 25 October, the start of its return journey which ended with Dragon splashing down in the Pacific off the coast of California, carrying another 1486kg of return mass back into the bounds of Earth's gravity. Less than 24 hours time-critical cargo was offloaded and Dragon was making its way to McGregor, Texas, for post-mission processing.

This was the 6th and final flight for Falcon 9 for 2014, a new SpaceX cadence record.

In late November 2015, a 10 metre by 54 metre half of the carbon-fibre composite interstage from a Falcon 9 rocket washed up in Scilly, United Kingdom. Using a combination of ocean drift and photo analysis, members of the /r/SpaceX community were able to determine that it belonged to F9-012 from the CRS-4 mission, having floated northeast across the Atlantic for over one year.