>”Close, but no cigar this time". 

These were the words uttered by Elon Musk over Twitter following an near-successful first stage landing attempt on SpaceX's "Autonomous Spaceport Droneship,” which was later given the name "Just Read The Instructions.” This was the first step up from ocean landings on the long path towards launch site landings, and eventually full rocket reusability.

The fifth of 12 ISS commercial resupply mission with Dragon kicked off SpaceX's 2015 - pushed from 2014 and the first week of 2015 due to issues with the vehicle's static fire earlier in the campaign, and with Z-axis actuator drift of the second stage TVC system at T-1:21 on the second attempt.

Making their debut on the rocket for the first time with CRS-5 were the grid fins located near the interstage, which help precisely steer the rocket via drag towards its intended destination. This enables vehicle helicopter-accuracy landings - a key requirement for reliable reusability. With these new upgrades, CRS-5 was the first mission to attempt a soft landing on a solid surface, namely the droneship. This was also SpaceX's first "unified" F9v1.1 core; replacing the two production lines which could produce legged and legless cores respectively.

Not to be outdone, the CRS-5 Dragon carried the heaviest cargo manifest yet, 2395kg of materials, science, and equipment destined for the astronauts aboard the ISS. Stowed in the trunk was CATS, the latest unpressurized science element to be brought up by Dragon, as well as several other small satellites. CATS is designed to use LIDAR to measure the concentration and distribution of particulates, smoke, and aerosols in the atmosphere from the vantage point of Japan's Exposed Facility aboard the ISS.

Falcon 9 lit up the sky for its fourth consecutive night launch by lifting off in the early hours of the morning at 4:47AM EST, 10 January 2015. The first stage would not touch “ground” for another 9 minutes. The launch proceeded with no issues, placing Dragon en route to the station. Right around the second stage cutoff, the first stage plummeted towards the barge, which lay over 300km from the launch site. The new grid fins had performed excellently, but at some point late in the descent at subsonic speeds, they ran out of hydraulic fluid and were unable to be used for the very last portion of the landing. Equipped with only the minimal gimbaling ability of the single Merlin engine used for the landing burn, the first stage was unable to recover and it slammed diagonally into the barge before skidding off the side. 20 minutes after launch, Elon tweeted: “Rocket made it to drone spaceport ship, but landed hard. Close, but no cigar this time. Bodes well for the future tho.” The next landing attempt, he stated, would include 50% more hydraulic fluid.

Dragon unberthed from the space station and reentered the atmosphere on 9 February, after 32 days in orbit. It splashed down in the Pacific off the coast of California at 3:44PM PST, with 1662kg of experiments, trash, and other downmass safely inside.