On 14 April 2015, a Falcon 9 v1.1 lifted off for SpaceX’s sixth ISS mission of a nominal fifteen under their Commercial Resupply Services contract with NASA. It was SpaceX’s 17th time launching the Falcon 9, and it would be the last mission to place Dragon in orbit for months. The flight suffered a single weather-caused delay, which pushed the flight to the next day. The vehicle took flight at 3:10:41 EDT, lifting off in a cloud of steam and smoke into a blue Florida afternoon. No issues cropped up during flight, and after just ten minutes Dragon had been successfully placed in Low Earth Orbit.

This was the second flight to attempt to land the first stage on a solid surface, just like CRS-5. DSCOVR had been intended to try as well, but bad weather around the barge had prevented anything more than a powered descent and splashdown. This time, however, the first stage was headed for the barge. Just Read The Instructions had been swapped in favor of the new Of Course I Still Love You, or OCISLY. The stage began the landing burn and touched down on the surface of the droneship. However, it had retained too much lateral velocity, and quickly tipped over, causing the remaining fuel to combust and destroy the stage. Four days after the flight, Musk announced on Twitter: “Cause of hard rocket landing confirmed as due to slower than expected throttle valve response. Next attempt in 2 months.” The landing would likely have been successful had the rocket’s response time been slightly quicker.

Meanwhile, after the Dragon spacecraft had separated from the second stage and unfurled its solar panels it began the last part of its journey to the ISS. Dragon was berthed to the station 3 days later, carrying 2015kg of upmass, including twenty “mousetronauts.” It also carried a number of small satellites, such as Planetary Resources’ Arkyd-3R cubesat and several satellites for Planet Labs. 

Dragon spent a total of 33 days and 20 hours berthed to the space station, before it was packed full of trash, experiments, and other downmass, and then sent on its way. It reentered the atmosphere shortly after unberthing at 12:04 PM UTC, splashing down in the Pacific Ocean west of California at 17:42 PM UTC.