The launch of DSCOVR (the Deep Space Climate Observatory) on 11 February 2015 marked many different milestones for SpaceX. It was the 15th Falcon 9 launch, the 10th flight of the significantly more capable v1.1 vehicle, and SpaceX’s 20th launch overall. It was also SpaceX’s first launch for the United States military since the ill-fated third launch of Falcon 1. However, the most unusual facet of the mission was not the rocket, it was its payload- the DSCOVR satellite. 

Originally developed in 1998 as Triana, the extremely light 570kg satellite was to monitor solar activity and atmospheric changes from the vantage point of Lagrange Point 1, balanced between the gravities of the earth and the sun. launched on board the space shuttle Columbia in 2001. It was not to be. NASA shelved the mission in 1999, citing budget concerns, and it stayed that way until 2012, when it was slotted into SpaceX’s manifest and renamed DSCOVR.

After a successful static on 31 January, DSCOVR’s launch campaign kicked into high gear. It was originally scheduled for liftoff on 8 February 2015 from Cape Canaveral, but an  issue with the ground tracking radar forced a last-minute scrub. During the next attempt on 10 February, high winds also prevented a launch. The conditions were finally deemed acceptable on the 11th, and DSCOVR lifted off into a cloudless Florida evening sky at 6:03 PM EDT. Due to the satellite’s unusual destination, the vehicle ascended along an unusual trajectory, much higher and vertical than normal. The first stage separated not quite three minutes after liftoff, and began to plummet back to earth as the second stage conducted two burns to first establish a parking orbit and then to set DSCOVR on an L1-bound path. The final insertion burn was fairly accurate, within 5% of the targeted 1,241,00km apogee and 187km perigee with an inclination of 37 degrees for the transfer orbit.

As that was happening, the first stage was headed for the Atlantic. DSCOVR had been intended as a second attempt to land the first stage on a solid surface ahead of doing so on land, but unfortunately conditions at Just Read The Instruction’s location were less than ideal. Ultimately, SpaceX decided to target the stage elsewhere and perform a soft splashdown as had been done with several other missions before. Several things were different about this splashdown- due to the flight’s trajectory, the first stage’s trajectory downwards was faster and steeper. Elon Musk noted on Twitter: “Rocket reentry will be much tougher this time around due to deep space mission. Almost 2X force and 4X heat. Plenty of hydraulic fluid tho.” The comment about hydraulic fluid referred to the CRS-5 attempted barge landing, in which the vehicle had run out of hydraulic fluid to operate the crucial grid fins. In the end, the splashdown went swimmingly, although the rocket quickly broke up from wave action. Musk announced, “Rocket soft landed in the ocean within 10m of target & nicely vertical! High probability of good droneship landing in non-stormy weather.”

The second stage’s ultimate fate remains unknown. Spacetrack.org places it in a highly inclined orbit just beyond the moon, but whether it was thrown there by the moon’s gravity or by an engine restart test can only be guessed.

DSCOVR was left to float on outward towards the edge of the earth’s Sphere of Influence, reaching L1 100 days or so later. From there, it provides early warning for potentially dangerous solar activity, as well as a periodically-updating view of earth’s sunlit side, which can be seen [here](http://epic.gsfc.nasa.gov).