Falcon 1 Flight 3 also took off from Omelek Island on Kwajalein in August 2008, nearly one and a half years after the second failed attempt of Falcon 1. Unlike the second flight’s lone payload simulator, flight 3 carried no less than 4 small satellites; Trailblazer for the U.S. Air Force, the 4kg satellite NanoSail-D with a ten square meter solar sail, the breadloaf sized PRESat, which was to study yeast in a controlled environment in micro-gravity, and a capsule for Celestis Memorial Spaceflights.

In addition to a myriad of improvements made since the second attempt, Flight 3 of Falcon 1 was the first to feature the new and more powerful Merlin 1C engine which would go on to power the first five Falcon 9 launches. It generated a thrust of 480kN in a vacuum, possessed a vacuum specific impulse of 304.8 seconds, and an extended body to accommodate extra propellant.

Liftoff occurred at 3:34 UTC on the 3rd of August after 2 recycle attempts, and the first stage’s new Merlin 1C engine performed perfectly. The flight remained nominal until stage separation, when some residual fuel in the first stage Merlin 1C engine evaporated. This provided enough transient thrust for the first stage to recontact the second stage, damaging the second stage engine and rendering it unable to fire. This prevented successful mission completion and resulted in the loss of all 4 satellites. The vehicle ultimately reached a top velocity of 3.2km/s and a peak altitude of 217km, well short of orbit. The cause of the somewhat embarrassing mistake was discovered in a matter of hours, and proved to be fixable by simply increasing the duration between first stage shutdown and stage separation - one line of code.

At this point, SpaceX was nearing bankruptcy, and barely possessed the funds for a fourth flight. After the failure, Elon Musk walked out and addressed the company, revealing that funding had been secured for another 2 launches if needed, and that SpaceX would pick itself back up. It did.

> It was obviously a big disappointment not to reach orbit on this flight [Falcon 1, Flight 3]. On the plus side, the flight of our first stage, with the new Merlin 1C engine that will be used in Falcon 9, was picture perfect. Unfortunately, a problem occurred with stage separation, causing the stages to be held together. This is under investigation and I will send out a note as soon as we understand exactly what happened.

> The most important message I'd like to send right now is that SpaceX will not skip a beat in execution going forward. We have flight four of Falcon 1 almost ready for flight and flight five right behind that. I have also given the go ahead to begin fabrication of flight six. Falcon 9 development will also continue unabated, taking into account the lessons learned with Falcon 1. We have made great progress this past week with the successful nine engine firing.

> As a precautionary measure to guard against the possibility of flight 3 not reaching orbit, SpaceX recently accepted a significant investment. Combined with our existing cash reserves, that ensures we will have more than sufficient funding on hand to continue launching Falcon 1 and develop Falcon 9 and Dragon. There should be absolutely zero question that SpaceX will prevail in reaching orbit and demonstrating reliable space transport. For my part, I will never give up and I mean never.

> Thanks for your hard work and now on to flight four.

\- Elon Musk.