"This launch is very important to the future of SpaceX. This is our toughest mission yet."

SpaceX finally entered the $6.5 billion commercial launch market on 3 December 2013, as the second Falcon 9v1.1, the first launching from Cape Canaveral, rocketed away from the launch pad at dusk to deliver the 3,138kg SES-8 communications satellite into a "super-synchronous" Geostationary Earth Orbit with an apogee of 80,000km. The countdown was plagued with delays which involved two scrubs and many clock resets - despite a Wet Dress Rehearsal + hot fire combination occurring without issue a few days earlier. This was SpaceX’s first geostationary satellite launch, which crucially required that the second stage be able to to restart in Low Earth Orbit to deliver the satellite to its desired orbit. This was something that was unsuccessful on the previous Falcon 9v1.1 flight, CASSIOPE. Frozen fuel lines were blamed for the previous incident, and the issue had been fixed by both SES & SpaceX engineers.

SES’s vote of confidence with using SpaceX as a launch provider was initially perceived as risky at best - yet after the launch, CEO of SES, Martin Halliwell, was quoted as saying "The entry of SpaceX into the commercial market is a game-changer - it is going to really shake the industry to its roots". In response to the successful launch, a day after, Arianespace CEO Stephane Israel stated "I have sent a signal to our customers telling them that I could review our pricing policy, within certain limits".

The upper stage of the Falcon 9 remained in geostationary transfer orbit, and decayed back into the Earth's atmosphere in the first half of 2014. This launch of the Falcon 9v1.1 marked the second of three launches required by the Air Force for SpaceX to be considered for defense missions and contracts, potentially allowing them to compete against the current status quo, United Launch Alliance.  Later in March 2014, during this process, it was revealed a fire present in the octaweb engine structure that occurred during Falcon 9 Flight 7 was one of three 'anomalies' the Air Force were investigating as they worked towards certifying the vehicle.