Hot on the heels of the recent launch of the SES-8 satellite using the new, powerful Falcon 9 v1.1 rocket, SpaceX set more records on the 6th of January 2014, as it launched the 3016kg communications satellite Thaicom 6, also, like SES-8, into a supersynchronous geostationary transfer orbit, this time with an apogee in excess of 90,000km. This marked SpaceX's second ever attempt at an inflight restart of the upper stage Merlin 1D-vacuum engine, and kicked off SpaceX's busy 2014 launch campaign.

Liftoff occurred on time from Cape Canaveral, at 22:06UTC without issue, a stark contrast to the oft-delayed prior launch from the same pad. Visible in the launch replay was a significant translation to the left as the rocket rose from launch pad, due to strong winds which were building around the time of launch. The mission proceeded smoothly through first stage separation and second stage ignition, with the webcast stream being cut on time near the end of the second stage burn as the vehicle moved out of range.

New aboard the flight was the addition of a 3D-printed Main Oxidizer Valve (MOV) body in a single Merlin 1D first stage engine. This marked the first time SpaceX had ever flown a component fabricated through additive manufacturing on a mission. The valve operated successfully under extreme conditions of high vibration, high pressures of liquid Oxygen, and under cryogenic temperatures. 3D printing allows SpaceX to push the boundaries of what’s possible, compared against more traditional manufacturing techniques.

Following this, nervous tension arose as news of the upper stage's engine's restart and payload separation were not announced publicly until well after the events had taken place. Nonetheless, the spacecraft was placed into a 457 x 91590km orbit; which was noted to have a much higher perigee than the planned 250km. Additionally, it was later noted in March 2014 that the second stage had "unnaceptable fuel reserves" at stage 2 cutoff, one of 3 'anomalies' mentioned in a letter the Air Force had sent to Representative Mike Rogers, chairman of the House Armed Services Committee's strategic panel.

Regardless, upon the success of this mission, marking three for three for the new Falcon 9, SpaceX appears to be well on the way to qualify for air force missions under the EELV program, as per the Air Force' requirements that the new vehicle demonstrate three successful flights. This also continued the aerospace industry's seachange, with once critical General William Shelton of the Air Force Space Command, saying "I don't doubt this guy [Elon Musk] anymore, by the way. What he says, he's going to do."